= Ipfilter

Ipfilter is IP filtering solution for Ruby. Common use case for this is DRM. Uses a GeoIP (or Geo::IP) database to determine the request ip's location.


== Compatibility

* Supports Ruby version: 1.9.2
* Supports cache store: Memcache.
* Supports Rails 3.


== Install

=== As a Gem

Add to your Gemfile:

  gem "ipfilter"

and run at the command prompt:

  bundle install


=== Or As a Plugin

At the command prompt:

  rails plugin install git://github.com/chtrinh/ipfilter.git


== Typical Rails Configuration

  # config/initializers/ipfilter.rb

  # Location of GeoIP database file.
  Ipfilter::Configuration.geo_ip_dat = "lib/assets/GeoIP.dat"

  # Type of ip country code to compare by.
  Ipfilter::Configuration.ip_code_type = "country_code2"

  # Allowable ip country code.
  Ipfilter::Configuration.ip_codes = ["FI"]

  # Exception to throw when IP is NOT allowed.
  # Accepts a Proc for fine-grain control of the appropriate response. 
  Ipfilter::Configuration.ip_exception = Proc.new { Api::Exception::AuthorizationError.new("You region is blocked!") }

  # Cache object (Memcache only).
  Ipfilter::Configuration.cache = Rails.cache


== Validate Ip

Add the following method to any controller to validate the <tt>Request#ip</tt>. 
<tt>Ipfilter::Configuration.ip_exception</tt> is a +Proc+ which is called when ip is NOT within the specified region/country. You can pass in filter options similar to those in +before_filter+. 

  validate_ip

You can also pass a block (with filter options) to be executed when validation of ip fails like so (defaults to <tt>Ipfilter::Configuration.ip_exception</tt> proc if no block present): 

  validate_ip do 
    raise Exception.new "Sorry access not granted!"
  end

By default, loopback/private network addresses are allowed. You can disable this in like so: 

  #config/initializers/ipfilter.rb

  Ipfilter::Configuration.allow_loopback = false


=== Overriding IP data 

If you want to override the GeoIP data for whatever reason:

  rake ipfilter:seed FILE=location/of/ip_data.yml

You'll probably want to make sure you set the expiration of the keys for a very long time. 

See "IP YML" below for more information


== IP YML

Make sure all keys that are going to be in use have values, all keys omitted will have value of nil.

Example:  

  # lib/assets/ip_seed.yml

  ---
  1.2.3.4: { country_code2: "IN", country_code3: "IND", country_name: "India", continent_code: "AS" }
  1.4.4.1: { country_code3: "IND", country_name: "India", continent_code: "AS" }
  1.2.43.32: { country_code2: "IN", country_code3: "IND" }


== Request Geocoding by IP Address

Ipfilter adds a +location+ method to the standard <tt>Rack::Request</tt> object so you can easily look up the location of any HTTP request by IP address. For example, in a Rails controller:

  # returns Ipfilter::Result object
  result = request.location

See "Advanced Geocoding" below for more information about Ipfilter::Result objects.


== Advanced Geocoding

So far we have looked at shortcuts for assigning geocoding results to object attributes.

Every <tt>Ipfilter::Result</tt> object, +result+, provides the following data:

* <tt>result.ip</tt> - string
* <tt>result.country_code</tt> - string
* <tt>result.country_code2</tt> - string
* <tt>result.country_code3</tt> - string
* <tt>result.country_name</tt> - string
* <tt>result.continent_code</tt> - string


== Caching

It's easy to cache ip results with Ipfilter, just configure a cache store:

  Ipfilter::Configuration.cache = Rails.cache

Currently only Memcache is supported. 

You can also set a custom prefix to be used for cache keys:

  Ipfilter::Configuration.cache_prefix = "..."

By default the prefix is <tt>ipfilter:</tt>

<i>Before you implement caching in your app please be sure that doing so does not violate the Terms of Service for your geocoding service.</i>


== Use Outside of Rails

You can use Ipfilter outside of Rails by calling the <tt>Ipfilter.search</tt> method:

  results = Ipfilter.search("147.243.3.83")

This returns an array of <tt>Ipfilter::Result</tt> objects. Please see above and in the code for details.


== Acknowledgements

The architecture/design of this gem is heavily based off of Geocoder (by Alex Reisner https://github.com/alexreisner/geocoder). 
Whereas Geocoder was built with 3rd party API resources in mind, Ipfilter uses a local database file (.dat) similar to Geoip (by Clifford Heath https://github.com/cjheath/geoip).